hello my name is jay i'm one of the
expert toefl teachers here at e2
language today we're going to do some
science some
speaking science and we're going to look
at the science of
sentence stress lots of
sounds
okay more specifically i'm going to
introduce to you what
sentence stress is not stresses in i'm
stressed because i have an exam coming
up
stress is in emphasis okay really
placing emphasis on a specific
word in a sentence and why we do that
we'll find out about that
we're also going to look at the
difference between meaning words and
grammar words this is an important
distinction to understand
i think it's just a good one to have
floating around in your mind
whenever you deal with language the
difference between meaning words and
grammatical words because there is a
difference
and finally we'll do some practice
okay let's do a little task
what i'm going to do is just read you
these one two three four
five sentences the sentences are all
exactly the same
in terms of vocabulary and grammar
except what i'm going to do is i'm going
to place
emphasis on a particular word in the
sentence
to change the meaning slightly okay
and i want you to listen carefully and
see if you can understand and comprehend
the change in meaning that comes from
the sentence stress
here we go john will drive to the cinema
tonight
john will drive to the cinema tonight
isn't that weird so all that happened
there was i
emphasized or placed stress that is i
elongated the word a little bit turned
up the volume
turned up the pitch made it a little bit
louder and
it kind of changed the meaning or it
gave it
additional meaning i should say it gave
it additional meaning for example
when i said john will drive to the
cinema tonight
the emphasis there is the place into
which or the place to which
john is going so maybe he's going to the
cinema
not the library for example okay all of
this of course makes greater sense in a
larger context when you're speaking
okay let's do a little task we'll play a
little game shall we
okay this time what's going to happen is
i'm going to say one of those sentences
and i'm going to place stress on one of
the words
you have to tell me which one a b c d or
e ready john
will drive to the cinema tonight
which one did i emphasize
the answer is b i put
emphasis on the word will let's do it
again
okay which one a b c d or e am i
emphasizing
john will drive to the cinema tonight
okay so we're talking about a split
second here
what i'm doing is on that word cinema so
we're looking at d
i emphasized it just ever so slightly
to change the meaning or to add
additional meaning
let's do one more john will drive to the
cinema tonight
did you get it hopefully this time you
got c
with the emphasis being on drive he's
going to drive not walk
he's going to drive to the cinema
tonight okay
cool let's keep going so
one thing that you need to understand is
that english is a
stress-timed language basically there
are two
categories of languages there are
stress-timed languages that is
they'll place stress on a particular
word and even
within that word they'll place stress on
a particular syllable
so these are stress-timed languages
maybe your first language is a stress
time language or maybe it's a syllable
timed language that is there is even
stress
placed on words and syllables which is
very different to
english and if you come from one of
these first languages
a syllable times language then this is
really important to understand because
it's going to help
native speakers of english to understand
you when you speak
or if you're taking your exam to get a
higher score
okay so take a look at these sentences
here
they're pretty straightforward but they
grow in complexity
and what happens is we're adding
additional words
and we're making the grammar more
complex
now let's do a little game this time i'm
going to clap
the sentence stress here i'm going to
say
cows eat grass the cows
eat the grass the cows have eaten the
grass
the cows have been eating i can't even
clap that fast
the cows have been eating the grass the
cows might have been eating the grass
so what's happening here is cows eat
grass
is this long it has this much of a
duration
right then when i add in these
additional grammatical words which we're
going to look at in a second
the and the again it maintains
the same duration the cows eat the grass
so i squish in the the cows
so don't say cows eat grass the cows eat
the grass
the cows the grass the cows the grass
whoa and it's very quick but then we can
even add
more complexity to this when i say the
cows have eaten the grass
the cows have have eaten have eaten
the grass the cows have eaten the grass
but i
still am emphasizing particular words
cows and grass
as we'll find out in a second are
meaningful words
so they have more stress and those
little grammatical words like duh
and have start to sort of almost
disappear or they're really
stuck together there let's increase the
complexity yet again
the cows have been eating the grass have
been eating have been eating have been
eating
the cows have been eating the grass whoa
that's very quick
and finally the cows might have been
eating the grass
cows eat grass the cows might have been
try this by yourself you can pause the
video and try to maintain the same
duration
of time that you spend when you say cows
eat grass
and then say the final sentence or build
up through the different sentences
keeping the same amount of duration
crazy stuff
okay so i touched on before the
difference between meaning words and
grammar words and it's important to get
a bit of a grasp
or to understand fully what that means
okay
so let's take a look at meaning words
have a look at this sentence here sleep
is key to good health
now what you'll notice when you look at
these speech
patterns is that meaning words like
sleep
key good and health have quite a
large emphasis and the grammatical words
like
is and two have much smaller
emphasis okay you can also think about
this like
bricks if you're building a house right
you put in the bricks but
bricks you need more than just bricks
you need the mortar you need the cement
that the bricks go on so you can think
about the meaning words like the bricks
and the grammatical words like the
cement or the glue
that sticks the bricks together and as
such they're smaller
they're less visible less oral you can't
hear them as well
so what are meaning words technically
well if we look at this sentence sleep
key good and health we have some nouns
and we have an adjective
so nouns things they are meaningful
words if i say them
you see an image in your mind like table
or
man or bicycle etc these things appear
in your mind as images
and also verbs like uh main verbs like
walk or make or drive for example
you can sort of see imagery there of
someone driving or making for example
also negatives like don't and can't
adjectives which are descriptive words
like good
bad high blue whatever these are
descriptions they
also are meaningful and finally adverbs
with the ly ending like quickly or
slowly or painlessly for example
these are also meaningful words
okay so let's do a little activity i'm
going to give you 30 seconds to look at
this paragraph
and identify which of the words are
meaningful
maybe you're not very good at
identifying nouns and verbs and
adjectives etc it doesn't matter
put that aside look at these words and
think to yourself
which of these have meaning which of
them provide me with some sort of
image okay you have 30 seconds
okay let's take a look at the answers
now so getting
enough sleep key good health
studies shown enough sleep
increases risk serious problems
heart disease scientist discovered one
way sleep protects
build up white blood cells heart
there's a few little complexities there
like for example
shown is the participle of show it's
still meaningful
and then we have build up actually the
preposition combines with the verb there
to make a meaningful
verb what's it called a phrasal verb
build up
hopefully you pick those out
let's now contrast that and compare
grammatical words okay
so if we look at our sentence again
sleep is key
to good health years and two is
and two don't really form any imagery in
your mind they're sort of meaningless
but they're very important to stick that
sentence together to stick those words
together
so grammatical words consist of or
include
auxiliary verbs like ears and have or do
prepositions like in on at two four away
from etc
articles and the conjunctions that stick
phrases or sentences together like and
or though
none of these words have meaning or
imagery associated with them so we can
call them
grammatical words okay
let's look at the same paragraph i'll
give you 30 seconds please find the
grammatical words
okay so the grammatical words in this
paragraph are
is to and have that not
the of have that against the of
in the do any of those words sort of
make sense or
meaningful to you probably not in that
case they're grammatical
okay now let's apply what we've just
learned to some toefl
practice questions okay
okay now have a listen to me reading
this paragraph and just see if you can
pay attention to how i
stress the meaningful words and i
de-stress
the grammatical words so the question is
do you agree or disagree with the
following statement students
should have to learn at least one
foreign language in high school
include details and examples in your
explanation and i say
i don't think it's a good idea to make
learning foreign languages compulsory in
schools
firstly because foreign languages may
not be of any use to students
who plan on spending their entire lives
in their home country
secondly some students and even their
parents
may have an aversion to learning certain
languages due to their political and
historical context
for example refugees who are fleeing war
would most certainly be uncomfortable
learning the language of the aggressors
that they are fleeing you'd hear the
emphasis on those
meaningful words and the lack or absence
of emphasis
on the grammatical words words like
don't think good idea
learning foreign languages compulsory
schools etc
if you want to understand this better
and
one way to do that is to visualize your
speech and you can visualize your speech
in speech
patterns by going to this website here
and recording yourself
and if you understand what is a
grammatical word and what is a
meaningful word
you should see that the meaningful words
have larger spikes
than the grammatical words that is there
is more volume
tone or emphasis placed on those
meaningful words and less on the
grammatical words
okay this time your turn to speak
what i want you to do is to read this
paragraph aloud
okay so the question that imagine you
get this on test day
is do you agree or disagree with the
following statements
learning new languages is easier for
younger people
include details and examples in your
explanation you have 45 seconds to read
this paragraph with good emphasis
okay so when you read that hopefully
emphasize some of these words like
does same younger people quick to pick
up
languages this may be two reasons the
first of which relates
societal expectations people for example
cool so if you're watching this on
youtube don't forget to subscribe to
this wonderful youtube channel and check
out e2languish.com for all of your toefl
test preparation needs including heaps
of practice questions
live classes mock tests etc check it all
out on e2language.com
thanks for watching
[Music]